cmake/README.md, before:

# Building WiredTiger with CMake

### Build Dependencies

To build with CMake we **require** the following dependencies:

* `cmake` : Official CMake install instructions found here: https://cmake.org/install/
  * *WiredTiger supports CMake 3.10+*
* `ninja` : Official ninja install instructions found here: https://ninja-build.org/
* `python3-dev` : Consult your package management application for installation instructions. This is needed for building with Python support.
* `swig`: Consult your package management application for installation instructions. This is needed for building with Python support.

We also strongly suggest the following dependencies are also installed (for improved build times):

* `ccache` : Official ccache download instructions found here: https://ccache.dev/download.html

##### Package Manager Instructions

Alternatively you can use your system's package manager to install the dependencies listed above. Depending on the system, the following commands can be run:

###### Install commands for Ubuntu & Debian (tested on Ubuntu 18.04)

```bash
sudo apt-get install cmake cmake-curses-gui
sudo apt-get install ccache
sudo apt-get install ninja-build
sudo apt-get install python3-dev swig
```

###### Install commands for Mac (using HomeBrew)

```bash
brew install ninja
brew install ccache
brew install cmake
brew install python
brew install swig
```

###### Install commands for Windows (using Chocolatey)

```bash
choco install cmake
choco install ninja
choco install ccache --version=3.7.9
choco install swig
choco install python --pre
```

### Building the WiredTiger Library

> *The below commands are written for Linux and Darwin hosts. Windows instructions coming soon!*

Building the WiredTiger library is relatively straightforward. Navigate to the top level of the WiredTiger repository and run the following commands:

###### Configure your build

```bash
# Create a new directory to run your build from
$ mkdir build && cd build
# Run the cmake configure step. Note: '-G Ninja' tells CMake to generate a ninja build
$ cmake -G Ninja ../.
...
-- Configuring done
-- Generating done
-- Build files have been written to: /home/wiredtiger/build
```

*See [Configuration Options](#configuration-options) for additional configuration options.*

###### Run your build

In the same directory you configured your build, run the `ninja` command to start the build:

```bash
$ ninja
...
[211/211 (100%) 2.464s] Creating library symlink libwiredtiger.so
```

*Note: Ninja doesn't need a `-j` option; it knows how many cores are available.*

###### Configuration Options

There are a number of additional configuration options you can pass to the CMake configuration step. A summary of some important options you will come to know:

* `-DENABLE_STATIC=1` : Compile WiredTiger as a static library
* `-DENABLE_LZ4=1` : Build the lz4 compressor extension
* `-DENABLE_SNAPPY=1` : Build the snappy compressor extension
* `-DENABLE_ZLIB=1` : Build the zlib compressor extension
* `-DENABLE_ZSTD=1` : Build the libzstd compressor extension
* `-DENABLE_SODIUM=1` : Build the libsodium encryptor extension
* `-DHAVE_DIAGNOSTIC=1` : Enable WiredTiger diagnostics
* `-DHAVE_ATTACH=1` : Enable to pause for debugger attach on failure
* `-DENABLE_STRICT=1` : Compile with strict compiler warnings enabled
* `-DENABLE_PYTHON=1` : Compile the python API
* `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path-to-install-directory>` : Path to install directory

---

An example of using the above configuration options during the configuration step:

```bash
$ cmake -DENABLE_STATIC=1 -DENABLE_LZ4=1 -DENABLE_SNAPPY=1 -DENABLE_ZLIB=1 -DENABLE_ZSTD=1 -DHAVE_DIAGNOSTIC=1 -DHAVE_ATTACH=1 -DENABLE_STRICT=1 -G Ninja ../.
```

---

You can further look at all the available configuration options (and also dynamically change them!) by running `ccmake` in your build directory:

```bash
$ cd build
$ ccmake .
```

*The configuration options can also be viewed in `cmake/configs/base.cmake`*.

###### Switching between GCC and Clang (POSIX only)

By default CMake will use your default system compiler (`cc`). If you want to use a specific toolchain you can pass a toolchain file! We have provided a toolchain file for both GCC (`cmake/toolchains/gcc.cmake`) and Clang (`cmake/toolchains/clang.cmake`). To use either toolchain you can pass the `-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=` to the CMake configuration step. For example:

*Using the GCC Toolchain*

```bash
$ cd build
$ cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../cmake/toolchains/gcc.cmake -G Ninja ../.
```

*Using the Clang Toolchain*

```bash
$ cd build
$ cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../cmake/toolchains/clang.cmake -G Ninja ../.
```

### Running WiredTiger C Tests

The WiredTiger CMake build makes available a suite of C/C++ based tests (separate from the Python testsuite). The run all the tests available, ensure you're in the build directory and execute:

```bash
ctest -j$(nproc)
```

To run with verbose output:

```bash
ctest -j$(nproc) -VV
```

To run a specfic test:

```bash
# Note: -R specifies a regex, where any matching test will be run
ctest -R <test_name> -j$(nproc)
```

See `ctest --help` for a range of additional supported options.

Commit message:

WT-8768 Distinguish hard and soft CMake dependencies (#7503)
The CMake README, currently defines 'ninja', 'python' and 
'swig' as hard dependencies. This isn't necessarily
true. Python is only required when building the Python API and
'ninja' is an optional generator. Updated the README to
better distinguish between 'hard' and 'soft' dependencies.

cmake/README.md, after:

# Building WiredTiger with CMake

### Build Dependencies

To build with CMake we **require** the following dependencies:

* `cmake` : Official CMake install instructions found here: https://cmake.org/install/
  * *WiredTiger supports CMake 3.10+*

We also suggest the following dependencies are also installed (for improved build times):

* `ninja` : Official ninja install instructions found here: https://ninja-build.org/
* `ccache` : Official ccache download instructions found here: https://ccache.dev/download.html

If wanting to compile the Python API, we also require the following dependencies:

* `python3-dev` : Consult your package management application for installation instructions. This is needed for building with Python support.
* `swig`: Consult your package management application for installation instructions. This is needed for building with Python support.

##### Package Manager Instructions

Alternatively you can use your system's package manager to install the dependencies listed above. Depending on the system, the following commands can be run:

###### Install commands for Ubuntu & Debian (tested on Ubuntu 18.04)

```bash
sudo apt-get install cmake
# Optional ...
sudo apt-get install cmake-curses-gui
sudo apt-get install ccache
sudo apt-get install ninja-build
sudo apt-get install python3-dev swig
```

###### Install commands for Mac (using HomeBrew)

```bash
brew install cmake
# Optional ...
brew install ninja
brew install ccache
brew install python
brew install swig
```

###### Install commands for Windows (using Chocolatey)

```bash
choco install cmake
# Optional ...
choco install ninja
choco install ccache --version=3.7.9
choco install swig
choco install python --pre
```

### Building the WiredTiger Library

Building the WiredTiger library is relatively straightforward. Navigate to the top level of the WiredTiger repository and run the following commands:

###### Configure your build

```bash
# Create a new directory to run your build from
$ mkdir build && cd build
# Run the cmake configure step. Note: Can optionally pass '-G Ninja' to generate a ninja build.
$ cmake ../.
...
-- Configuring done
-- Generating done
-- Build files have been written to: /home/wiredtiger/build
```

*See [Configuration Options](#configuration-options) for additional configuration options.*

###### Run your build

In the same directory you configured your build, run the `make` command to start the build:

```bash
$ make
...
[211/211 (100%) 2.464s] Creating library symlink libwiredtiger.so
```

###### Configuration Options

There are a number of additional configuration options you can pass to the CMake configuration step. A summary of some important options you will come to know:

* `-DENABLE_STATIC=1` : Compile WiredTiger as a static library
* `-DENABLE_LZ4=1` : Build the lz4 compressor extension
* `-DENABLE_SNAPPY=1` : Build the snappy compressor extension
* `-DENABLE_ZLIB=1` : Build the zlib compressor extension
* `-DENABLE_ZSTD=1` : Build the libzstd compressor extension
* `-DENABLE_SODIUM=1` : Build the libsodium encryptor extension
* `-DHAVE_DIAGNOSTIC=1` : Enable WiredTiger diagnostics
* `-DHAVE_ATTACH=1` : Enable to pause for debugger attach on failure
* `-DENABLE_STRICT=1` : Compile with strict compiler warnings enabled
* `-DENABLE_PYTHON=1` : Compile the python API
* `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path-to-install-directory>` : Path to install directory

---

An example of using the above configuration options during the configuration step:

```bash
$ cmake -DENABLE_STATIC=1 -DENABLE_LZ4=1 -DENABLE_SNAPPY=1 -DENABLE_ZLIB=1 -DENABLE_ZSTD=1 -DHAVE_DIAGNOSTIC=1 -DHAVE_ATTACH=1 -DENABLE_STRICT=1 -G Ninja ../.
```

---

You can further look at all the available configuration options (and also dynamically change them!) by running `ccmake` in your build directory:

```bash
$ cd build
$ ccmake .
```

*The configuration options can also be viewed in `cmake/configs/base.cmake`*.

###### Switching between GCC and Clang (POSIX only)

By default CMake will use your default system compiler (`cc`). If you want to use a specific toolchain you can pass a toolchain file! We have provided a toolchain file for both GCC (`cmake/toolchains/gcc.cmake`) and Clang (`cmake/toolchains/clang.cmake`). To use either toolchain you can pass the `-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=` to the CMake configuration step. For example:

*Using the GCC Toolchain*

```bash
$ cd build
$ cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../cmake/toolchains/gcc.cmake ../.
```

*Using the Clang Toolchain*

```bash
$ cd build
$ cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../cmake/toolchains/clang.cmake ../.
```

### Running WiredTiger C Tests

The WiredTiger CMake build makes available a suite of C/C++ based tests (separate from the Python testsuite). The run all the tests available, ensure you're in the build directory and execute:

```bash
ctest -j$(nproc)
```

To run with verbose output:

```bash
ctest -j$(nproc) -VV
```

To run a specfic test:

```bash
# Note: -R specifies a regex, where any matching test will be run
ctest -R <test_name> -j$(nproc)
```

See `ctest --help` for a range of additional supported options.
